# OR-ML-survey
# End-to-end model:

## Attention:

### Pointer Networks：
Oriol Vinyals et al. 2015.  NIPS
A sequence-to-sequence model with modified attention mechanism where the output is in form of a distribution over all elements of the input. It delivery solutions to a set of problems that the size of output dictionary depends on the input, which is typical in combinatorial optimization problem. The "pointer" in its name refers to a softmax layer generating a probability distribution function on the input from embedding features of each element in input by both encoder and decoder. In the original paper, they conduct experiments on three classical combinatorial problems: convex hall problem (to find a mininal set of nodes to circle all elements on the graph with their connecting links), delaunay triangulation problem (to find the triangulation form of a given set without any node circled by triangles in the segementation), and travelling saleman problem (to find a rount in 2D Euclideam space visiting each node exactly once and return to the original point with shortest distance). The Pointer Network is reported to show improvement on performance on all three problems in small sets compared to previous machine learning methods while fails in large-scale delaunay triangulation problems. More importantly, invalid tours could be produced by Pointer Network model and a beam search algorithm is deployed to only select the valid ones. Generally, it obtains results close to classifical exact and heuristic solvers in TSP, and is considered as a breakthrough in application of machine learning model in an end-to-end approach to combinatorial optimazaion problems especially the TSP.

### Neural Combinatorial Optimization with Reinforcement Learning:
Irwan Bello et al. 2017. ICLR.   
The main drawback of the work by Oriol Vinyals is tied to the supervised training approach, since optimal routes are computationally infeasible in most cases in the domain of combinatorial optimization problems due to NP-hard characteristic, or multipel routes are equally optimal. This results to a limited availability of training examples and the its performance generally depends on the quality of labeled data. In respons to this fact, Irwan Bello et at. proposed model designated as Neural Cominatorial Optimization combining neural network and reinforcement learning and reports a significant improvement on performance in Euclideam planar TSP. With a reward function designed on the tour length, the policy-based reinforcement learning components is drived to graduatly optimize the parameter within the pointer network adhering the policy gradient method asynchronous advan- tage actor-critic (A3C) through stochastic gradient descend paradigm. The critic compromise three components: two LSTM model where one act as encoder and the other as process block, and one two-layer neural network with ReLu activation as decoder. In addition to the greedy algorithm premarily adopted in the the first version, another two reinformence learning techniqued provide more insight into evaluation of the tour: the first is called sampling where several sampled candidate routes controled by a temperature parameter are drawn from current status and the excat shortest is chosen for the next step; the other is active search to refine the stochastic gradient policy while search on the potential solution to the processed test instance. This model outperforms not only the original Pointer Network but others widly-used solver regards to average route length and running times.

## GNN:
### 


### 
